## Example Summary

This example demonstrates time series classification of PIR based motion detection into one of three categories: human motion, background motion, or dog motion. This example uses an ADC to capture the PIR output, from which features are extracted using the feature_extract library. The extracted features are fed into the model for inference, and the model's output is used to activate the appropriate LED for each motion captured. The model was trained and validated using the EdgeAI Sensor Boosterpack (TIDA-010997) with the motion captured from 6-8m range.

A compact and modular Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with 53k+ parameters is used for classification. The model is designed to handle multivariate input signals and supports multi-class classification.

In the PyTorch training framework, neural networks are trained with optimizations (for example, aggressive quantization) that target TI MCUs. After training, the neural networks are compiled by the 'TI Neural Network Compiler' (https://software-dl.ti.com/mctools/nnc/mcu/users_guide/index.html). Options passed to the compiler determine which of the following actions the generated inference library performs:
1. Hardware accelerated inference using TinyEngine™ NPU.
2. Software-only inference using the CPU on the MCU.

This example is built for the Hardware accelerated inference using TinyEngine™ NPU.

The output from the TI Neural Network Compiler is an artifacts directory that will contain: A header file (for example, tvmgen_default.h), and a library file (for example, model.a). This makes the output from the compiler easier to integrate with the project.

In the header file generated by the compiler (tvmgen_default.h) and stored in the artifacts directory, information about input/output data shapes and types is provided,
and input/output data structures and the inference function are defined.

## AI Model Information

| Property             | Value                                           |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Model Architecture   | CNN                                             |
| Number of Parameters | ~53,000+                                        |
| Input Shape          | Tensor[(1, 1, 25, 25)]                          |
| Output Classes       | 3 (Human Motion, Background Motion, Dog Motion) |
| Quantization         | INT8                                            |

## AI Performance

| Metric                   | Value     |
| ------------------------ | --------- |
| Accuracy (R square)      | ~92.46    |
| Flash Usage(KB)          | 58.3      |
| RAM Usage(KB)            | 7.8       |
| Inference Latency (ms)   | 61.56     |

*Note: Performance metrics measured on LP-MSPM0G5187.*

### Device Migration Recommendations
This project was developed for a superset device included in the MSPM0 LaunchPad. Please
visit the [CCS User's Guide](https://software-dl.ti.com/msp430/esd/MSPM0-SDK/latest/docs/english/tools/ccs_ide_guide/doc_guide/doc_guide-srcs/ccs_ide_guide.html#sysconfig-project-migration)
for information about migrating to other MSPM0 devices.

### Low-Power Recommendations
TI recommends to terminate unused pins by setting the corresponding functions to
GPIO and configure the pins to output low or input with internal
pullup/pulldown resistor.

SysConfig allows developers to easily configure unused pins by selecting **Board**→**Configure Unused Pins**.

For more information about jumper configuration to achieve low-power using the MSPM0 LaunchPad, please visit the [LP-MSPM0G5187 User's Guide](https://www.ti.com/lit/slau967).

## Hardware Requirements

1. LP-MSPM0G5187 LaunchPad
2. Edge AI Sensor Boosterpack (TIDA-010997)

## Example Usage
Connect the Edge AI Sensor Boosterpack(TIDA-010997) boosterpack on top of the launchpad.

Select which PIR sensor to use:
 - Connect pin J7_2 to PA22 to use PIR1 sensor
 - Connect pin J6_2 to PA22 to use PIR2 sensor

Compile, load and run the example.

The corresponding on-board LED will illuminate to indicate the detected motion category:
1. Red LED : Human motion
2. Blue LED : Background motion
3. Green LED : Dog motion

Note: This project is currently in the experimental phase. The model was trained and tested exclusively with the PIR data captured from TIDA-010997 boosterpack. Performance with other PIR sensors may not be accurate.

## References

- [PIR Detection ModelZoo Example](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/tree/main/tinyml-modelzoo/examples/pir_detection)
- MSPM0G5187 Technical Reference Manual [Link](https://www.ti.com/product/MSPM0G5187)
- [TI Neural Network Compiler Guide](https://software-dl.ti.com/mctools/nnc/mcu/users_guide/)
- TI Model Training Guide: [tinyml-tensorlab](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/tree/main)
- [AI Model Architecture - CNN_TS_PIR2D_BASE](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/blob/main/tinyml-modelzoo/tinyml_modelzoo/models/classification.py) 
- EdgeAI Software Guide:[Link](https://dev.ti.com/tirex/explore/node?node=A__AKCnvqDed-Plz2JO5Umb3Q__MSPM0-SDK__a3PaaoK__LATEST)
- Tensorlab User Guide [Link](https://software-dl.ti.com/C2000/esd/mcu_ai/01_03_00/user_guide/index.html)