## Example Summary

This example demonstrates time series classification of waveform signals into one of three categories: sawtooth wave, sine wave, or square wave. This example uses an ADC to capture the input waveform, from which features are extracted using the feature_extract library. The extracted features are fed into the model for inference, and the model's output is used to activate the appropriate LED for each waveform type. The model was trained and validated using an input waveform with a frequency of 40 Hz and a DC offset of 1.65V.

A compact and modular Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with 14,124 parameters is used for classification. The model is designed to handle multivariate input signals and supports multi-class classification.

In the PyTorch training framework, neural networks are trained with optimizations (for example, aggressive quantization) that target TI MCUs. After training, the neural networks are compiled by the 'TI Neural Network Compiler' (https://software-dl.ti.com/mctools/nnc/mcu/users_guide/index.html). Options passed to the compiler determine which of the following actions the generated inference library performs:
1. Hardware accelerated inference using TinyEngine™ NPU.
2. Software-only inference using the CPU on the MCU.

This example is built for the Software only inference mode using the CPU on MSPM0.

The output from the TI Neural Network Compiler is an artifacts directory that will contain: A header file (for example, tvmgen_default.h), and a library file (for example, model.a). This makes the output from the compiler easier to integrate with the project.

In the header file generated by the compiler (tvmgen_default.h) and stored in the artifacts directory, information about input/output data shapes and types is provided,
and input/output data structures and the inference function are defined.

## AI Model Information

| Property             | Value                      |
| -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Model Architecture   | CNN                        |
| Number of Parameters | 14,124                     |
| Input Shape          | Tensor[(1, 1, 128, 1)]     |
| Output Classes       | 3 (Sawtooth, Sine, Square) |
| Quantization         | INT8                       |

## AI Performance

| Metric                   | Value     |
| ------------------------ | --------- |
| Accuracy (R square)      | 100       |
| Flash Usage(KB)          | 21.7      |
| RAM Usage(KB)            | 3.1       |
| Inference Latency (ms)   | 54.06     |

*Note: Performance metrics measured on LP-MSPM0G3507.*

## Hardware Requirements

1. LP-MSPM0G3507 LaunchPad
2. Function Generator

## Example Usage
Compile, load and run the example.
Provide the input waveform to pin PA27.
The corresponding LED will illuminate to indicate the classified waveform type:
1. Red LED : Sawtooth Wave
2. Blue LED : Sinusoidal Wave
3. Green LED : Square Wave

The Blue LED also acts as a default for any other input shape.

Note: The model was trained and tested exclusively with an input wave frequency of 40Hz and a DC offset of 1.65V. Performance with other frequencies and offsets may not be accurate.

## References

- [TimeSeries Classification ModelZoo Example](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/blob/main/tinyml-modelzoo/examples/generic_timeseries_classification)
- MSPM0G3507 Technical Reference Manual [Link](https://www.ti.com/product/MSPM0G3507)
- [TI Neural Network Compiler Guide](https://software-dl.ti.com/mctools/nnc/mcu/users_guide/)
- TI Model Training Guide: [tinyml-tensorlab](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/tree/main)
- [AI Model Architecture - CNN_TS_GEN_BASE_13K_NPU](https://github.com/TexasInstruments/tinyml-tensorlab/blob/main/tinyml-modelzoo/tinyml_modelzoo/models/classification.py) 
- Tensorlab User Guide [Link](https://software-dl.ti.com/C2000/esd/mcu_ai/01_03_00/user_guide/index.html)
- EdgeAI Software Guide:[Link](https://dev.ti.com/tirex/explore/node?node=A__AKCnvqDed-Plz2JO5Umb3Q__MSPM0-SDK__a3PaaoK__LATEST)
